# Dataclasses in Python
Dataclasses are a special type of class that are tailored for storing data. Dataclasses are imported from the [_dataclasses_](https://docs.python.org/3/library/dataclasses.html)
module as _dataclass_, which contains a decorator, `@dataclass`, that can be used to make a class a dataclass. Dataclasses can be especially convenient because they automatically 
generate a host of magic methods: \_\_init_\_\, \_\_repr_\_\, \_\_eq\_\_, all the comparison operators (\_\_lt\_\_, \_\_le\_\_, \_\_gt\_\_, \_\_ge\_\_), and possibly even
\_\_hash\_\_. This virtually eliminates all the normal boilerplate code you'd have to write in order to write a class for storing data.

Although you have to declare a type for each data member of a dataclass, the declared type is only a hint. Python is a dynamic language and any variable can be any datatype
at anytime. Dataclasses do not change this.

Throughout the examples I will be using a class _Point_ that has two coordinates (an x- and a y-coordinate). <br />
The example is from Scott Irwin's 2018 talk: [_Dataclasses are here. Now what?_](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zHY1oaYxxjA) <br />
```Python
from dataclasses import dataclass

# A simple, immutable 'Point' class that automatically implements __init__, __repr__ and, __eq__
@dataclass(frozen=True) # Both x and y have a default value of 0
class Point:
    x: int=0
    y: int=0
```

## _@dataclass_ Arguments
The _@dataclass_ decorator can take arguments that change how the dataclass functions. <br />
By default, only init, repr, and eq are true — order, frozen, and unsafe_hash are false by default.

If you manually implement a dunder method like \_\_init\_\_ and _init_ is _True_, then the manual implemention will override the automatically-generated one.

### init
_init_ automatically creates a constructor for the dataclass. The arguments for the constructor should be passed in the same order that the data members
are declared in the dataclass (in this case, x then y).

_init_ is _True_ by default.

```
```

### repr
_repr_ creates a string representation of the class. The string representation of a Point object where x=10 and y=20 would look like <br />
`Point(x=10, y=20)`.

_repr_ is _True_ by default.

```
```

### eq
_eq_ will automatically generate the \_\_eq\_\_ method. \_\_eq\_\_ compares the dataclass like tuples, so if any element in the dataclass is not equal
then the dataclasses are not equal.

_eq_ is _True_ by default.


```
```

### order
The _order_ argument will implement all four comparison operators (<, >, <=, >=). The comparison operators compare the dataclasses 
like tuples, so the first unequal operation is how the dataclass will compare to each other. See [here](https://howtodoinjava.com/python/misc/compare-tuples/) for more on tuple comparison.

_order_ is _False_ by default.

```
```

### frozen
The _frozen_ attribute will override \_\_setattr\_\_ and \_\_delattr\_\_ to make the dataclass immutable. <br />
If you try to change a frozen dataclass, you will get a _dataclasses.FrozenInstanceError_ exception.

_frozen_ is _False_ by default.

```
```

### unsafe_hash
Depending on how eq and frozen are set, you may get a \_\_hash\_\_ function (assuming it's safe to implement). <br /> 
If it's not and you want to force one, you can set _unsafe\_hash_ to _True_. You really shouldn't use this, since it's dangerous.

_unsafe\_hash_ is _False_ by default.

```
```

## Fields and Field Arguments
The _field()_ function can provide greater control of the individual data members of the dataclass, allowing you to do things like exclude certain data members from \_\_repr\_\_,
\_\_hash\_\_, \_\_init\_\_, \_\_eq\_\_, et cetra. Fields also have a _default\_factory_ argument that allows you to set a default value for a mutable type like a list. If you 
do not use the _default\_factory_ method, then all instances of the class will refer to the same list (or other mutable type).

To use _field()_, you have to import it as _field_ from _dataclasses_ like `from dataclasses import field`.

### default
_default_ is the default value of the field.

```
```

### default_factory
The _default\_factory_ parameter takes a function that returns the default value of the field.
You have to use the _default\_factory_ method for non-primitive types like lists because setting the default value to `[]` would cause every instance to refer
to the same list. To use the default factory for a list, set the field to `field(default_factory=list)` (this works because the _list()_ functions returns a list).

By the way, make sure to import the _List_ from _typing_ so you can use _List_ as the default type of the data member.
```
```

### init
If _init_ is _True_ (which it is by default), then the field will be initialized the by automatically-generated constructor.

```
```

### repr
If _repr_ is _True_ (which it is by default), then the field with be included in the string generated by \_\_repr\_\_.

```
```

### compare
If _compare_ is _True_ (which it is by default), then the field will be included when comparing dataclasses with the methods created by the _order_ dataclass paramter.

```
```

### hash
If _hash_ is _True_ (which it is by default), then the field will be included when calculating the hash of the dataclass.

```
```
